I am not normally one to complain about
being busy, I tend to agree with the mantra that "being busy is better than
being bored", and while that is certianly true, it does leave little time to
work on personal projects, and thus, my blog has been somewhat silent. So this
is somewhat of an "update" post, detailing what I have been up too, If your
looking for a programming or technical post, your going to have to wait a few
days.... In a somewhat cronological order:

## Middlesex

As of September this year, I am pleased to announce that I now work for
Middlesex University as a Graduate Academic Assistant. The role is a technical
post, that includes a varaity of different jobs: "Assisting" in labs, ensuring
that equipment is functional, ensuring that students know what they are doing,
and helping them with projects if they require help, and also assisting in the
planning and delivery of open days, events etc etc.... I also get to play with
lots of robots. It is a great job, and I am thrilled to be part of the staff
team at MDX.

## UTC

As part of my new Job, came an unexpected second job, which has (for the last
6 weeks) become my primary role at Middlesex. As part of the [ Univeristy
Technical College Scheme ](http://www.utcolleges.org/), Middlesex University
has become a sponsor for the new [Tottenham
UTC](http://www.tottenhamutc.co.uk/). As part of the Colleges "Projects"
Scheme, Middlesex University is helping to facilitate the teaching and running
of several projects that aim to push the students in areas not normally
covered by traditional education. note:: Enter Calum ::note Over 6 weeks, I
have led a team of Middlesex staff at the UTC, to teach skills such as Basic
Programming, Breadboarding, Presentation skills, Soldering and Electronics. We
worked on building a simple analog electronic biometric measuring device,
which we could then log data from Using National Instruments MyDaq devices.
I'll post more info about the final design when I can, but as students work is
still being assesed, I cant say much more for the moment.

## Euroskills

An observent reader of my blog will remember back in November last year, I
[Did quite well](http://calumk.com/blog/Mechatronics%20Gold/) at the
*WorldSkillsUK* Mechatroncis competition. Well in October this year I was
lucky enough to be chosen to represent the UK at the *EuroSkills*
Mechatronics competition, in Lille, France. Sadly we didnt do quite as well as
we had hoped, and came 4th out of 15 teams, which, while not bad, was just shy
of a placing for a medal. We were lucky enough to get a "Medalion of
Excellence" which means we achieved above international standard. Go Team UK!
A little video all about me........

<center>
<iframe width="640" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/X7-SD0mW3C8" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</center>